# Usage Guide 🚀

Before running the DockNScore pipeline, it's essential to prepare your protein for docking and dock it to a ligand using PyRx. Follow these steps to ensure a smooth docking process:

## Protein Preparation with PyRx

1. **Prepare Protein Structure**: Use PyRx to prepare your protein structure for docking. PyRx offers various tools for protein preparation, including adding hydrogen atoms, optimizing the structure, and assigning charges.

2. **Dock Protein to Ligand**: Dock your prepared protein to a ligand of interest using PyRx. This step involves selecting suitable docking parameters, running the docking simulation, and analyzing the results to identify potential binding modes.

3. **Obtain Configuration File**: After docking, PyRx generates a configuration file (conf.txt) containing the docking parameters and results. You'll need this file for running DockNScore.

4. **Prepare Excel File**: Ensure that your Excel file containing compound information has a column named 'MMV ID' for compound IDs and another column named 'SMILES' for compound SMILES strings. These column names must be strictly followed. Edit your Excel file to ensure compliance.

5. **Place Files in Directory**: Place the conf.txt file generated by PyRx and your prepared protein structure (in mol2 or PDB format) in the same directory as the DockNScore executable. Additionally, place your Excel file with compound information in the same directory.

6. **Organize Protein Files**: Move your prepared protein structure file to the `Docking_Proteins` folder located in the directory with the DockNScore executable. This folder is where DockNScore expects protein files to be located.

## Running DockNScore

Once you've prepared your protein and ligand data and organized the files as instructed, you can run DockNScore using the provided executable. Here's how to do it:

```bash
./DockNScore.exe --protein_folder Docking_Proteins --config_file conf.txt --xlsx_file output_results.xlsx
```

Ensure that you replace conf.txt with the actual name of your PyRx configuration file and output_results.xlsx with the desired name for the output Excel file containing docking results.

## Organizing Results

After running DockNScore, the pipeline generates folders containing the docking results for each compound. It is recommended to copy all these result folders into a single directory for better organization. For example, if you are docking one protein against multiple plates of compounds, save the results for each plate separately and run the pipeline for each plate separately.

This organization strategy helps keep your results structured and easily accessible for further analysis or reference.

Follow these steps carefully to maximize the accuracy and efficiency of your docking experiments using DockNScore. Happy docking! 🧬🔬
